# Webpack
In this project, we learned how to install webpack and how to setup a dev server with it.

Topics Covered:
- How to setup Webpack for a basic project
- Entry points, output, and loaders
- How to add plugins
- How to split your code into chunks
- How to setup a dev server

Table of Contents:
- [0. Basic setup](#0-basic-setup)
- [1. Learning how to use Webpack with a config file](#1-learning-how-to-use-webpack-with-a-config-file)
- [2. Adding CSS \& Images](#2-adding-css--images)

## 0. Basic setup
Create and run Webpack using a basic installation.
- Create a folder named `task_0`.
- Install `webpack` and `webpack-cli` as developer dependencies within the folder using `npm`.
- Install `jQuery` as a regular dependency using `npm`.
- Make sure that `webpack` and `webpack-cli` are listed under the devDependencies key along with `jQuery` being listed under the dependencies key within the package.json
- Create a `src` directory with a `index.js` in it.
- The file should import `jquery` and add three different paragraphs to the page body: (refer to this [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery#including-jquery "link") under the Babel section for importing jQuery)

```
Holberton Dashboard

Dashboard data for the students

Copyright - Holberton School
```

- Create a `dist/index.html`. Import your `main.js` in the body.
- You must use `jQuery` to add the elements to the body of the page.
- When running `Webpack`, your `javascript` and `html` files should be generated in a `dist` folder.
- You should not use a custom `webpack` config file.
- Opening your main file should not generate any error in the console.
- Your `html` code should only import one `Javascript` script (the one generated by `webpack`).
- Do NOT push your `dist/main.js` if you have one.

---
- File: `task_0/package.json, task_0/src/index.js, task_0/dist/index.html`

<sub>[Return to top](#webpack)</sub>

## 1. Learning how to use Webpack with a config file
**Installing packages**
- Create a folder named `task_1`, `cd` into it, and create a package.json using `npm init -y`
- Install webpack (dev dependency), jQuery (dependency), and Lodash (dependency) within the folder using `npm`.
- Modify your `package.json` to add a `build` script that runs `webpack` to create build output. This lets you execute `npm run build` on the command line.

**Using jQuery**
- Create a `js` directory with a javascript file named `dashboard_main.js` in it. The file should import `jquery` and add the below elements in the following order:
    - Paragraph element: `Holberton Dashboard`
    - Paragraph element: `Dashboard data for the students`
    - Button element with the text `Click here to get started`
    - Add a paragraph element as so `<p id='count'></p>`
    - Add another paragraph: `Copyright - Holberton School`

**Prevent spammers**
- Write a function called `updateCounter()` that tracks the number of times the button element has been clicked.
- Each time it’s called, update the count by 1 and set the content of the paragraph element with id=‘count’ to `{count} clicks on the button`
- Bind the debounce function in Lodash to the click event on the button you created previously (The number of milliseconds to delay invocation should be 500).

**Requirements:**
- When running Webpack, your javascript should be generated in a `public` folder. You should also place your index.html in this folder.
- The javascript file generated by Webpack should be named `bundle.js`
- Set Webpack config mode to production
- Opening your html file should not generate any error in the console
- Your html code should only import one Javascript script (the one generated by webpack)
- File: `task_1/js/dashboard_main.js, task_1/package.json, task_1/webpack.config.js, task_1/public/index.html`

**Resources:**

- [Debounce documentation on Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs/#debounce " Debounce documentation on Lodash ")

<sub>[Return to top](#webpack)</sub>

## 2. Adding CSS & Images
Create a specific configuration for Webpack.
- Using the folder named `task_2`.
- Reuse the code from `task_1`.
- Modify the webpack config to support adding CSS to the bundle.
- Modify the webpack config to support adding images to the CSS.
- Create a folder named `css`
- In a file named `main.css`, change the position of the counter text to be displayed on the right of the button and in bold.
- Add an element at the top of document with the id `#logo` which has a width of 200px and height of 200px.
- Set the background of th element with the image in `task_2/assets/holberton-logo.jpg`.
- Set the width and height of the logo background image to 200px by 200px.
- Make sure to configure Webpack to optimize images.
- When running Webpack, your javascript and html files should be generated in a `public` folder.
- The javascript file generated by Webpack should be named `bundle.js`.
- Set Webpack config mode to production.
- Opening your main file should not generate any error in the console.
- Your html code should only import one Javascript script (the one generated by webpack).
- When running Webpack, you should not see the warning `WARNING in asset size limit: The following asset(s) exceed the recommended size limit`
- File: `task_2/package.json, task_2/css/main.css, task_2/webpack.config.js, task_2/js/dashboard_main.js, task_2/public/index.html`

<sub>[Return to top](#webpack)</sub>
